[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[CHEERING]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> A long time ago, the Earth
was a very different place.
Hundreds of millions of years
before the dinosaurs, the Earth
was covered with vast
oceans filled with life.
That life took the form
of simple, single-celled
organisms,
phytoplankton, and algae.
Those single-celled organisms
converted the sun's energy
into chemical energy.
They consumed carbon
dioxide and produced
oxygen. When they
died, they fell
to the bottom of
the ocean floor,
and were covered by
layers of sediment.
Heat and pressure converted
those ancient, single-celled
creatures into oil.
About 150 years ago, humans
drilled into the Earth
and began extracting that oil.
And that's when our
world profoundly changed.
Oil is the lifeblood
of our society.
Almost everything in our
lives is made from oil.
It heats us.
It cools us.
It feeds us.
It brings us what
we need to live.
It takes us where we need to go.
But there are problems with our
use of oil, serious problems.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
My name is Josh Tickell.
I've spent my life searching for
a solution to those problems.
This is my story.
>> America is addicted to oil
imported from unstable parts
of the world.
[MUSIC - MOBY, "EXTREME WAYS"]
>> 80% of the world's oil
reserves are in the hands
of OPEC countries.
These are the
countries that will
dictate our economic stability.
>> It's the military
petroleum complex.
And they are crack
fiends for carbon.
>> We are facing the decline of
the primary energy supply that
runs the economy.
I shall be dead by then.
So it's not my problem.
It's your problem.
(SINGING) Oh, baby, oh, baby.
>> Thank you for waiting.
May I take your order, please?
>> Can I get a medium sprite
and all your used cooking oil,
please?
>> What do you mean?
>> You know the used frying
oil that you fry things in?
>> The used what?
>> All right, what
can I get you?
>> You guys use used
frying oil, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, I just wondered
if I could get all of that.
>> All of it?
>> Yeah.
>> Well I really
don't know about that.
[DIDGERIDOO MUSIC]
I was born in 1975 in
Melbourne, Australia.
My mom is from Louisiana.
She's a French Cajun.
My father was a surfer
kid from Australia.
My brother and I were free
to ride our bikes everywhere.
You know, Australia has
incredible wildlife.
You've got kangaroos
and goannas.
They stand on their hind legs
and their frill comes out.
I loved playing with them,
and having them chase me,
and chasing them.
We just had a plethora of
wonderful, natural things
to play with.
My parents would just let
us do whatever we wanted.
I mean, they just
never worried about us.
There wasn't anything
to worry about.
[SAD MUSIC]
Over time, my mother missed
the US more and more.
And she would get letters.
She was just crying.
One after another, her family
members were dying in the US.
And eventually, they
decided that my mother
would go back to the US
with my brother and I.
There was a lot of
refineries everywhere.
We couldn't swim in the water
like we could in Australia.
We couldn't go fishing
There were signs
about toxic spills.
There were signs about don't
swim here, don't fish here.
That was really a disconnect.
I went off into my
own world and started
experimenting with nature.
My high school
science project, I
decided to test the
local waterways.
And the test results
came back with lead,
mercury, things that
were not supposed
to be in the waterways.
The project went to state
and one of the judges
said, you know, I'm
tempted to disqualify you.
I said, why?
And he said, well, I work for
the Environmental Protection
Agency.
And we've done all
of these tests.
And your results
are completely off.
And it would only
be later that I
would learn that the
Environmental Protection
Agency of Louisiana
gets 90% of its funding
from permits issued
to oil companies.
The agency that is supposed
to be protecting the people
is funded by the
industry it's supposed
to protect people from.
[MUSIC - THE GRATEFUL DEAD, "NOT
FADE AWAY/GOIN' DOWN THE ROAD
FEELING BAD"]
It was during the time
I was at New College.
I went to Europe as part of my
degree in sustainable living.
I began to work
on organic farms.
These people really
cared for their animals,
their land, their soil.
Everything was part of a system.
(SINGING) I want to tell
you how it's gonna be.
One day, I saw
this farmer pouring
something that looked like
vegetable oil into his tractor.
And he said it's biodiesel.
Bio-- biodiesel?
I mean, we had been
working with a tractor
and a car fueled by crops
that we had grown ourselves.
I'd seen the crops as
seeds. (SINGING) Ah.
There it is, biodiesel.
If I could bring
this fuel to America,
if this would catch on,
this could change the world.
(SINGING) Going down
the road feeling bad.
I couldn't wait to
get back to the US.
I became obsessed with engines.
How can an engine
run on vegetable?
How is this possible?
And then I learned about
Dr. Rudolf Diesel, who
it turns out, actually invented
the diesel engine to run
on vegetable oil 100 years ago.
That fired me up even more.
And I took the rest of
my student loan money.
And I bought a little, used
Winnebago with a diesel engine.
And I started experimenting.
I learned that you
can make biodiesel
from any vegetable oil,
sunflowers, soybeans, canola.
Well vegetable oil
is quite expensive.
I mean, a gallon
is like $4 or $5.
How can I make biodiesel from a
cheap source of vegetable oil?
[MUSIC - RACHEL GARLIN,
"ALTERNATIVE FUEL"]
(SINGING) You bring
the French fries.
But keep the ketchup
up on the side.
My plan was to take
this Winnebago,
and take it around the
country on biodiesel
that I made from used cooking
oil from fast food restaurants,
and teach people
about biodiesel.
[MUSIC - JENNY REDDING, "TAKING
A TRIP IN THE VEGGIE VAN"]
And so I sat down with
a few of my friends.
And we sketched
out this thing that
would suck up oil
from a restaurant,
mix it with alcohol and
lye, and spit out biodiesel.
And I called it the
green grease machine.
>> Every week here on "Today,"
Leonard's Look gives our Mike
Leonard a chance to examine
a little piece of Americana.
This morning it's
about what you have
left after a meal of fast food.
In a word, it's about grease.
>> Grease?
>> Grease.
(SINGING) The other
day I met a man.
>> You're that guy.
(SINGING) Taking a trip
all across the land.
You're that veggie van guy.
(SINGING) He's got a
car that runs on grease.
I saw you on "The Today Show."
(SINGING) A side of fries
and a burger please.
People would see the veggie van.
They'd roll down their windows.
(SINGING) It won't be
long til you're a fan--
>> Woo!
Veggie Van!
>> All right.
(SINGING) Taking a
trip in the veggie van.
>> It got people to come
out and ask questions.
He, that's weird.
You drive a van
on vegetable oil?
Hey, man, how many
French fries to the acre
does that thing get?
I mean, people were interested.
[MUSIC - MELISSA CRABTREE,
"BIODIESEL VAN"]
(SINGING) And now
I got a diesel,
biodiesel, I got
a biodiesel van.
Diesel, diesel, biodiesel.
I got a biodiesel van.
You know, I'd done this two-year
trip to promote biodiesel.
I'd done hundreds and hundreds
of interviews, radio, TV,
newspaper, magazine.
I wrote two books.
I lectured all around the US.
I lectured all around the world.
But nothing significant
happened with biodiesel.
I mean, if anything,
we slid backwards.
It was almost like I
hadn't done anything.
And then--
[EXPLOSION]
>> [SCREAM] Oh, my god!
>> It hit the building.
>> (SCREAMING) Oh, my god.
Oh, my god.
>> Everyone remembers
where they were that day.
We were all in a state of shock.
According to the CIA,
15 of the 19 hijackers
were from Saudi
Arabia, the largest oil
producer in the world.
We may never know what
happened that day.
But we all remember
what happened next.
Is there a connection to oil?
Did our choice of
fuel lead to this?
The only way to get that answer
was to go back out on the road.
And I had a pretty good idea
of where to start looking.
[MUSIC - BEAU JOCQUE AND
THE ZYDECO HI ROLLERS,
"GARDEZ DONC! (LOOK AT THAT)"]
Now we're ready to travel.
(SINGING) Ho, ha.
I think 9/11 reminded us
all of what's important.
The first place I wanted
to go was back home.
>> When I was young, the
bayou was just beautiful.
We swam in the bayou.
We ate all the food
out of the bayou.
Cajun people love
to share their food.
They love to fish.
They love to dance.
>> A Cajun is somebody who'll
eat anything that don't eat him
first.
We ate jambalaya,
catfish, gumbo, anything
that you could catch out of
the rivers and swamps, that
was the staple of our diet.
[SOFT MUSIC]
>> God didn't give Louisiana
white beaches like he gave
Florida.
He didn't give us mountains
like he gave of Colorado.
He gave us dead dinosaurs.
He gave us a Jurassic
Park of oil and gas,
from which we've built a huge
refining and manufacturing
industry.
>> Louisiana actually produces
more gasoline than any other
state in the nation.
We have 150 petrochemical
facilities in a 100-mile area.
The refineries heat crude
oil in distillation towers.
Oil vapors condense
along the sides,
splitting into a
variety of products
like diesel fuel and gasoline.
The leftover toxic chemicals
turn the surrounding air
and soil into what the EPA
calls the fallout area.
>> Well when you drive
along the highway,
all you see is something that
looks sort of like the Emerald
City.
You see all these towers,
and columns, and tanks.
And the whole purpose is
to manufacture chemicals
that are building
blocks that are used
for other manufacturing
processes,
as well as finished products
like gasoline, jet fuel.
>> Plastics, chlorine, ammonia,
nitrates, fertilizers, PVC.
But there's a third
fraction of the oil barrel.
That third fraction is
waste, usually toxic waste.
There's only three
ways to get rid of it.
You can burn it.
You can dump it on land.
Or you can dump it in water.
And so for the last 70 years,
the oil companies in Louisiana
have been doing all three.
Growing up in Louisiana,
in history class,
everyone watches a film
called "The Louisiana Story."
It shows a story of a young
Cajun boy and his Cajun family.
And an oil derrick moves in.
And the oil people are friendly.
They give them money.
They hit a gusher.
They cap the well.
And then they leave
the place almost better
than they found it.
One little detail that
we were never told,
the film was funded, paid
for, by Standard Oil.
It was like Standard Oil's
first public cover up.
They were going into Louisiana,
ripping the bayous open,
and creating a toxic cesspool.
>> I remember driving
back from New Orleans.
We would pass these
long stretches.
And I'd see these
horrible fires and
these thick, ominous-looking
clouds of smoke for miles.
Oh, the stench was terrible.
>> One of the ways that the
petrochemical companies get
away with releasing more
emissions of chemicals,
and byproducts, and waste
products into the environment
then they're actually
permitted to do,
is that they have
these little accidents.
And sometimes they're
not so little.
Sometimes the
accidents are very big.
And there's huge explosions.
They ask people around here
to run inside their homes,
close their doors and windows.
And you try to seal
them up with tape.
>> Our community is surrounded
by 11 petrochemical plants,
a hazardous waste facility,
and a Superfund site.
As a consequence, our
entire swamp, as well as
the community, became polluted.
And this pollution bio
accumulated in the organisms.
So that when people
ate fish, they
were eating contaminated fish.
This has been documented by EPA.
>> When you take a look at
the local emergency planning
committee's records
of these accidents,
there are between
200 and 300 a year.
>> We have studies,
after studies,
after studies that were
just never published.
>> This is a cover
up in your opinion?
>> It's a cover up
in their opinion.
Facts about working with PVC--
PVC is a non-hazardous material
made from vinyl chloride
monomer.
VCM exposure is
virtually nonexistent.
I didn't plant this here.
I mean, this just happens
to be what's here.
PVC dust is non-toxic.
These are all the things that
they send to the folks who
are working out in the field.
There are documents
in here that say
if we don't tell
what we know, it
could be construed as evidence
of an illegal conspiracy
on the part of industry to
withhold vital information
from the government.
>> Don't you know
children was born here?
And they left all this
water contaminated.
They didn't come and knock
on anybody's door and say,
y'all need to be
moved out of here.
They just let the people
live, like, OK, they die.
So what?
>> One thing that started to
really become clear was that
women were relating to me
about this strange problem that
didn't affect any generation
but their daughter's generation.
There was this increase
in fertility problems.
There was an increase
in birth defects.
And there was an increase
in reproductive problems,
miscarriages, a higher
rate of miscarriages.
>> And your husband used
to work here, right?
>> My husband worked at Conoco.
And we're not able to have kids.
>> 1988, I'm sitting on the
foot of my mother's bed.
She's sick.
On the news comes a breaking
report of a Greenpeace protest.
And the banners
read, "Cancer Alley."
This section of
land in Louisiana
has the highest number of cancer
incidents in the United States.
He said, people are sick.
People are dying in this state.
And it's because
of oil processing.
I turned and I looked at
my mother lying in bed.
>> I'd always dreamed
of a large family.
And I'm very
privileged and honored
to have two wonderful sons.
But (TEARFULLY) I had
nine miscarriages.
>> Factor that into
the cost of gasoline.
Make the companies pay for that.
See how much a
gallon of fuel costs.
People ask me why
I do what I do.
Do I tell them the truth?
Do I tell them that I grew
up hating oil companies?
Do I tell them that
hatred was what fueled me?
Everywhere that oil is
processed, this happens.
There's a Cancer
Alley in New Jersey.
Alley in California.
There's a Cancer
Alley in Nigeria.
Those people suffer
just as much.
Detroit used to be
the undisputed car
capital of the world.
But all is not
well in Motor City.
What happened to the vision of
the once-great American auto
industry?
Henry Ford, the visionary father
of the modern auto industry,
grew up on a farm
outside of Detroit.
Maybe that's why he
designed his Model
T to run on ethanol
alcohol, a fuel
made from corn, white
lightning, moonshine.
Ford's alcohol captured 25% of
the fuel market in the Midwest.
Now when he did that, red
flags went up at Standard Oil.
John D. Rockefeller, the
founder of Standard Oil,
started funding an
amendment that would
become known as prohibition.
That one law shut down all
alcohol production in the US,
including ethanol alcohol.
For 12 of the 13
years of prohibition,
Ford continued to produce
ethanol-compatible cars.
And then he gave up.
One year later,
prohibition was lifted.
President Teddy
Roosevelt broke up
Standard Oil due to its
monopoly of the energy
market and its
interference in government.
88 years later, the
two largest parts
of the company, Exxon
and Mobil, reunited,
forming a global
corporation with profits
totaling more than all
the automakers combined.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Ladies and gentlemen,
welcome to the North American
International Auto Show.
>> The standard line
from Detroit is,
we can't convince consumers
to buy green cars.
>> Oh, we're just
meeting popular demand.
And popular demand, they
want Yukons and Hummers.
And we just make
Yukons and Hummers
because of popular demand,
ignoring the hundreds
of millions of dollars they
put in advertising, persuading
people they really need
a Hummer or a Yukon.
>> Good for camping.
Good for off roading.
It's really the main focus
of the Hummer for me.
>> Yeah it seems like a good
vehicle for off roading.
>> Do you go off roading a lot?
>> Oh, actually, no.
>> After 9/11, we passed a law
that said that if you buy a car
that weighs 6,000
pounds or more,
that the government would
essentially buy it for you
in tax breaks, to stimulate the
economy as part of the economic
stimulus package that passed the
United States Congress, deep,
deep, deep tax breaks for
cars that weighed 6,000 pounds
or more?
It was just a list of cars.
Those cars?
Those are just cars.
These cars?
Economic stimulus.
In World War II, we
went from producing
Studebakers and
Buicks to producing
Sherman tanks and long-range
bombers in a matter of a month.
And you're telling
me you can't produce
a car that gets better
than 26 miles per gallon?
Look at Toyota.
They've become the number-one
car company in the world,
largely due to the
popularity of the Prius.
>> Toyota made the choice to
build hybrids when the American
companies made the
choice at the same time.
They had the options.
They had hybrids on the books.
They could have done it.
But they took a
short-term view and Toyota
took a long-term view.
>> I wanted a more
fuel-efficient car,
not so much because I'm
some kind of do gooder,
only because I don't like going
to the gas station all that
much.
>> People are buying Priuses.
And they're buying them because
they're making a statement.
The same thing with diesel cars,
people are buying diesel cars
and they're importing them
into the United States.
After all, you
can pour biodiesel
straight into a diesel
car with no modifications.
I searched the whole auto
show for diesel vehicles.
I only found one, the V10
Touareg that Volkswagen
raced across Africa.
It wasn't for sale.
>> Based on their experience,
Americans know that diesels are
noisy, and smoky, and slow.
That's not what diesel
technology is today.
That's not what's
coming out of Europe.
What they call common-rail,
turbocharged diesels
are phenomenal.
>> Diesel engines have changed
dramatically in the last 15
to 20 years.
Beginning in 2007, the
emissions standards
for diesel vehicles and gasoline
vehicles will become the same.
>> And of course, you're going
to get something on the order
of 30% improvement
in fuel economy.
In some models, it's
even more than that.
If you're worried about
CO2 and global warming--
>> Biodiesel causes reduction
in emissions of certain toxic
compounds.
>> In Germany, an independent
car company called Loremo just
produced a diesel car that
gets over 150 miles per gallon.
>> That's why,
especially in Europe,
they've just gone hog
wild over buying diesels.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Bill Ford, CEO, Chairman,
Ford Motor Company.
[APPLAUSE]
>> In 2006, Ford
lost $12.7 billion.
>> Thomas LaSorda,
CEO and President,
Daimler Chrysler Corporation.
>> Chrysler cut 13,000
jobs and lost $1.5 billion.
>> Rick Wagner
Jr., Chairman, CEO,
General Motors corporation.
[APPLAUSE]
>> GM cut 35,000 jobs.
They lost $10.6 billion.
>> Why the heck can't
all of America's cars run
on electricity and
advanced biofuels?
Why?
>> When Detroit-- they were
shown that they would save
millions of lives if they
put seat belts in their cars,
they resisted it.
And they didn't
do it because they
thought it was the morally
right thing to do, which it was.
They didn't do it
until they were
forced to do it by legislation.
And we're in the
same place right now.
>> Consumers can choose
to buy the Prius instead
of the Hummer.
And governments can choose to
subsidize the Prius instead
of the Hummer.
>> Because our government
subsidizes wasteful cars,
the average American car is
30% bigger than those overseas,
which means our cars also
consume about 30% more fuel.
With the largest car
fleet in the world,
our population, only 4.5%
of the Earth's inhabitants,
makes almost half of the
world's automotive CO2.
I went to see Colin Campbell,
renowned oil geologist,
and author of the book,
"The Coming Oil Crisis."
Colin showed me "The
Oil and Gas Journal,"
in which ExxonMobil
first printed
the graph that shows that our
planet's oil supply is running
out.
>> 1981, the world started
using more than it found.
And the gap is widening.
>> Colin and ExxonMobil
are not alone.
Hundreds of books, thousands of
websites, and countless charts
show that our oil
is running out.
Even Matthew Simmons, who heads
the world's largest oil bank
and has testified in
front of Congress, agrees.
>> Oil is actually
non-renewable,
even though there are some
economists that now believe
that maybe it
really is renewable.
And that is preposterous.
We have a society,
in the United States,
more than any other
country on Earth,
has an enormous appetite for
oil for our daily well-being.
And we are blindly assuming
that the more we need,
the more we will have,
because we need it so much,
and that since we have never
run out, we will never run out.
>> We consume 25%
of the world's oil.
We have 2% of the world's
oil, all of our reserves.
We cannot drill our
way out of this.
>> This is Ken Hern.
He's a former CEO at Texaco.
If anyone knows about
oil, it's this guy.
>> As we stand today, it's
getting harder to find it.
It's getting very hard to find
it in a Western hemisphere,
if you will.
I'll give you my best
example I can give you.
Chevron has announced
the possibility of oil
being in the Gulf of Mexico.
But the area they're
going to go drill
in, they're going to drill
in 10,000 feet of water,
5,000 feet of silt. They'll be
15,000 feet below the surface
before they hit
the structure where
they're going to try to drill.
If you think about
it, it would be easier
to walk on the face
of the moon than it
would be to go to that
sector of this blue planet
and look for oil.
>> The big question, Josh,
is what are we're going to do
in 25 years time, when the
oil is seriously depleted?
>> Of course, this isn't the
first time we've had an oil
shortage.
Back in 1973, OPEC
cut the flow of oil
off to punish the
US for supporting
Israel in the Yom Kippur War.
When Jimmy Carter
became president,
he responded by launching an
ambitious program to reduce
our dependence on foreign oil.
He even had solar
panels installed
on the roof of the White House.
>> We must start now to develop
the new unconventional sources
of energy that we will rely
on in the next century.
>> Carter's plan was working.
And by the time
he left office, he
had reduced America's
energy use by 25%.
>> It's a problem that we
will not be able to solve
in the next few years.
And it's likely to get
progressively worse
through the rest
of this century.
>> After Carter left office,
the Reagan administration took
the solar panels down.
>> They even cut the
fuel-economy standards.
We had a nice, rising trend
of fuel economy standards.
And they were notched
back under Reagan
just to encourage bigger cars.
>> The perception of that
administration was there are no
real energy problems that
the market cannot solve.
We don't need any more policies.
And in fact, we haven't
had any real energy
policies since the
Carter administration.
>> Since the Reagan
administration,
we've had this attitude of, it's
good to consume as much as you
can because that makes
everybody richer.
And of course, it's a huge lie.
Every president, going
back to Richard Nixon,
has watched the increasing
reliance on foreign oil,
steadily.
>> Before Jimmy Carter
became president,
he was a peanut farmer.
What business was our recent
president and vice president
engaged in before
they took office?
It wasn't peanut farming.
>> Of course, President
Bush is a Texas oilman.
It was Texas oil that
put him into office.
And there's no way he
can ever pass legislation
that will seriously harm the
oil and petroleum industry.
>> According to the Center
for Public Integrity,
the oil industry spent
more than $420 million,
between 1998 and 2004, funding
politicians and political
parties.
ExxonMobil came in first,
giving $60 million.
Chevron-Texaco gave $40 million.
And BP gave $30 million.
This really begs the question,
is our government for sale?
Several months before 9/11,
Vice President Dick Cheney
held 40 secret meetings with the
heads of major oil companies.
>> In those meetings, it was
obvious that the oil companies
were writing energy
policy for our country.
>> Documents pertaining
to Cheney's meetings,
released through the
Freedom of Information Act,
were purposefully blanked out.
However, the Justice
Department released maps
from the meetings that showed
the oil companies discussed
Iraqi oil pipelines, oil
refineries, and oil fields.
Iraq had the second-largest
oil reserves in the world.
The maps were dated March,
2001, six months before 9/11.
>> When we tried to
swear them to an oath,
the Republican majority refused
to have them take the oath.
It was outrageous.
>> We look forward to questions.
Senator Cantwell?
>> Mr. Chairman, I would
like the committee to vote
on whether we swear--
>> There will be no vote.
That's not in order at all.
It's the decision
of the chairman.
And I have made that decision.
>> Mr. Chairman, I move that
we swear in the witnesses.
>> And I rule that out of order.
>> I second the motion.
>> Thank you very much.
That's the last we're going to
hear about that because it's
out of order.
>> Mr. Chairman, if a
Senator makes this request
and there's a second, why
wouldn't we have a vote
on that?
>> Because you can't vote to
put in the rules something
that's not there.
>> Here, they were preparing the
country for a disaster that we
now see upon us.
And they denied that
they were there.
>> Did your company
or any representatives
in your companies participate in
Vice President Cheney's Energy
Task Force in 2001, the meeting?
>> No.
>> Sir?
We did not.
No.
>> The guy that made sure the
oil executives were not under
oath is Senator Ted Stevens from
the great oil state of Alaska.
He was later indicted for
accepting undisclosed gifts
from oil companies.
Viking grill, $5,000,
1999 Land Rover, $50,000,
extensive home
renovations, $250,000,
owning your own Senator
from Alaska, priceless.
>> "The Washington
Post" published a list
of the attendees.
It was a conspiracy.
And the American public is
paying a price for that now.
>> If we think about the way
we felt after September 11,
and why that event had
the power that it had,
there wasn't a story
to explain that event.
When we lose our
story, when we lose
our sense of where we
are in time and space,
we become childlike, regressed.
That's what happens
in a state of shock.
And you are very
inclined to believe
in strong father-like
figures who
claim that they have the
story, that they have it
all figured out.
And so we think about what
happened after September 11,
when we lost our story.
The eagerness of the
Bush administration
was so acute in planting
a news story immediately.
And this news story was
called "the war on terror."
>> Suddenly, on September 12, we
have a war meeting in the White
House, where you
have Paul Wolfowitz,
deputy secretary
of defense, saying,
we've got to take out Iraq.
Paul Wolfowitz said,
in an interview
with "Vanity Fair" magazine.
We just had to pick an
issue to sell this case
to the American public.
And the issue we picked was WMD.
>> The natural impulse after
September 11 was for people
to try to turn to each other
to reorient themselves.
And that's how you
get out of shock,
is you fill in the blanks.
>> The Nexus of WMD and
terrorism has now being
created.
It doesn't exist.
There is no connection between
Saddam Hussein and Osama bin
Laden.
There are no weapons
of mass destruction.
>> If we think about the way the
Bush administration responded
to that very-healthy
quest for context,
they waged war on that process.
>> The more we found
out what the truth was,
the more the truth became
inconvenient for the policy
objectives of the United
States government.
>> There was pre-9/11, where
we knew certain things,
and post-9/11, where there
was a whole new language,
a whole new narrative.
We were starting
over from scratch.
And there's nothing more
dangerous than that.
People without a past can
be made to do anything.
>> And the people who knocked
these buildings down--
>> (CHANTING) USA, USA, USA.
>> The American economy
lives and dies on oil.
The global economy
So it would be naive to say
that it's not about oil.
It's about oil in a big way.
[MUSIC - THE JANE DOES,
"WHO'S KIDDING WHO?"]
(SINGING) When I
stop and think what
we are doing, who's getting
killed, who's making a killing.
People scratching for
food, living in ruin,
it just makes no sense.
Who's kidding who with the
gods of light and fire?
Who's kidding who with your
guns and souls for hire?
Who's kidding who?
Who's found truth
through lips of lies?
Who's kidding me?
Who's kidding you?
Who's kidding who?
>> Our desire and our need to
protect the flow of foreign oil
requires us to spend a lot of
money on a military presence
in the Middle East.
We spend $50 billion a year.
Just every-day
military expenditures
to protect the flow of
oil, we spend $50 billion.
>> Congress appropriates
money to federal agencies
and departments to spend.
And they can't account
for the transactions that
are undertaken with the money.
The federal government,
as of the year 2001,
had over $3 trillion in what the
General Accounting Office calls
undocumentable transactions.
The biggest problem
is at the Pentagon.
>> And its own auditors admit
the military cannot account
for 25% of what
it already spends.
>> I would argue that
the most-serious threat
to the United States is not
someone hiding in a cave
in Afghanistan or Pakistan,
but our own fiscal
irresponsibility.
>> We cannot track $2.3
trillion in transactions.
>> $2.3 trillion with a T.
That's $8,000 for every man,
woman, and child in America.
>> The attacks happened
on the 11th of September.
And ever since then,
that information
has been classified.
Americans should be asking,
what's happened to the money?
Where is the money gone?
>> Spiraling oil prices are
hitting European businesses
hard.
>> Today, oil set
another record high.
>> Executives from the country's
top oil companies found
themselves in the spotlight
on Capitol Hill today.
>> Does it trouble any of you,
when you see what you're doing
to us?
>> Last year, what
was your compensation?
>> In total, about 12 and 1/2
billion-- million dollars.
>> I know it's a matter
of public record.
I don't know the exact amount.
>> Well, Mr. Law, I wish I made
enough money that I didn't even
have to know how much I make.
>> It's really a crisis of
centralized power and a nexus
between a single industry,
with near-monopoly control over
something that we all need,
with the power of the state.
>> The oil companies are making
the largest profits ever.
ExxonMobil made over $40
billion in a single year.
You know that's larger than the
GDP of some small countries.
>> The corporate and
the state are merging.
>> What we are seeing is a
government run for the oil
companies.
It's very, very clear.
>> International trade in oil
is all denominated in dollars.
When those countries
sell oil, the dollars
that result from that sale
flow into the American banking
system.
What this means for
the United States
is that the US is able
to purchase oil simply
by printing dollars.
That's a very good deal
if you can keep it going.
It's analogous to
a cash flow problem
which you deal with
using the MBNA credit
card that you get in the mail.
You run up the
credit line on that
until you can't spend anymore.
And then you use the
Citibank card that
comes in the next day's mail.
And you run up the
credit line on that.
The United States has been
doing this now since 1980.
And it's built up
something that economists
call the net foreign debt.
That net foreign debt
now equals more than 3
and 1/2 trillion dollars.
If you keep borrowing and
borrowing and borrowing,
you've got a choice.
You can either go to court
and declare bankruptcy,
or you can pick up a gun and
go rob a service station.
The United States has
elected to pick up the gun
and go rob a service station.
That's what the war on
terror is all about.
>> Until we start questioning
this basic idea of the right
to live beyond one's means,
to extract, and extract,
and extract, then the problems
will repeat themselves.
>> x equals y plus z.
x is that which
makes America happy.
x feeds America's
needs and desires.
y is what America
owns, has the ability.
So as long as x equals
y, we're in balance.
We're in harmony.
Everything's cool.
But y is a very small
number compared to x.
The American appetite is huge.
So we now need z, which is
what the rest of the world has.
And we're making z a bigger,
and bigger, and bigger number,
which means we have
to go out and get z
in a manner which is
beneficial to America.
>> The problem is not
dependence on foreign oil.
The problem is the
Imperial mindset.
>> Good evening, my
fellow Americans.
This evening, I come
to you with a message
of leave taking and farewell.
As we peer into society's
future, we, you, and I,
and our government,
must avoid the impulse
to live only for today,
plundering, for our own ease
and convenience, the precious
resources of tomorrow.
We must guard against
the acquisition
of unwarranted influence,
whether sought or unsought,
by the military
industrial complex.
>> When I was a little boy, I
went to Europe with my father,
to Czechoslovakia, to Poland, to
Greece, and Italy, and Germany,
and France.
And everywhere we
went, we were met
by vast crowds of people,
hundreds of thousands
of people, who came
out on the street
because they wanted to be
near an American politician
because they loved our country.
And this wasn't just because
my father had a brother who
was martyred four years before.
Hundreds of thousands
of people, they
were starved for
American leadership.
They were hungry for
our moral authority.
They proudly name their
streets after our presidents,
Washington, and Jefferson,
and Lincoln, and Roosevelt,
and Kennedy.
And I remember the
day after 9/11,
when the headline on the
biggest newspaper in France,
"Le Monde," was, we're
all Americans now.
And for three weeks after
9/11, tens of thousands
of Muslim people in Tehran
came out onto the streets
to have spontaneous
candlelight vigils,
to express their
solidarity, their sympathy,
their love for the
United States of America.
We were the most-beloved nation
on the face of the planet.
And it took 230 years of
disciplined, restrained,
visionary leadership by
Republican and Democratic
presidents to build up
those vast reservoirs
of public adoration
for the United States
and for our values.
Through monumental
arrogance and incompetence,
these oil slaves
in the White House
have drained those
reservoirs dry.
And to me, that is
the bitterest pill
to swallow because I saw in
the faces of those crowds when
I was a little boy,
the hope for leadership
from the United
States, not just to do
good things for our country,
but to do great things for all
of humanity.
Abraham Lincoln said that
America is a great nation
because we are a good nation.
And he said, if we ever
stop being a good nation,
we'll quickly lose
our greatness as well.
Because of our addiction to
oil, we have lost that greatness
because we lost our goodness.
We put the oil in front
of the Bill of Rights.
This isn't a great
nation just because it's
a place where you can come and
make a big pile for yourself,
and whoever dies with
the most stuff wins.
It's good because of the values
that we're proud of, that we
pass down to our children.
>> This is a crucial time for
our country and our world.
The changes we need to
make are monumental.
The challenges we face
are almost insurmountable.
Robert Kennedy's father often
said, "Some men see things
as they are and say, why?
I dream of things that never
were, and say, why not?
America isn't the only country
that suffers from its addiction
to oil.
I wanted to see how
other nations are
dealing with this problem.
The citizens of Germany
demanded renewable energy.
And their government responded
by investing billions
of dollars into solar, wind,
and biodiesel technologies.
I wasn't surprised to learn that
one of their greatest thinkers
had also been a big
proponent of green energy.
>> In the MAN-Museum, we
present the world's first diesel
engine.
And also a very important part
is the diary of Rudolf Diesel.
>> So this is his
actual original diary?
>> Yes.
Some notes.
>> Rudolf Christian Karl Diesel
is born in Paris, in 1858,
to German parents.
He's a shy boy who spends
much of his time drawing.
He shows an interest in
all things mechanical,
and often takes apart
the family cuckoo clock.
On his 14th birthday, Rudolf
announces his purpose in life.
He is to become an engineer,
the best engineer in the world.
He excels in school, winning
scholarship after scholarship,
in some schools, earning the
highest scores ever recorded.
He learns to speak three
languages, German, French,
and English.
In 1880, Rudolf starts
an apprenticeship
building refrigeration
and steam engines.
He's appalled at the
inefficiency of the steam
engine.
In 1892, he patents a
design for revolutionary,
highly-efficient new
engine, German patent number
6721, the machine we know
as the diesel engine.
He becomes a millionaire many
times over by the age of 40.
He debuts his engine at the
Paris Exhibition of 1900.
The engine runs on peanut oil.
More than 50 million
people attend.
The escalator is introduced.
And the first publicly-exhibited
films with sound are shown.
But Rudolf's engine wins the
Grand Prix, the highest prize.
It was his hope that
by fueling an engine
with an agricultural product,
he could take the power away
from big industry,
and put it back
into the hands of the everyday
farmer and the common man.
In 1913, Rudolf says goodbye
to his wife and children
to go to the opening of a diesel
engine factory in England.
He boards the SS
Dresden at Antwerp
to cross the English Channel.
After dining with
the ship's captain,
he retires to his cabin,
about 10 o'clock that night.
The captain later says he
appeared to be in good spirits.
The next morning, Rudolf
Diesel is missing.
The ship is searched
to no avail.
The final entry of his journal
is a simple drawing of a cross.
A few days later,
his lifeless body
was found floating,
by fishermen.
The engine that he created over
100 years ago still runs today.
After Diesel's
death, Standard Oil
introduced a dirty byproduct
of the gasoline distillation
process that could
run a diesel engine.
They call it diesel fuel.
Germany has over 1,900 public
filling stations for biodiesel.
Why?
>> It's good for
our Mother Earth.
>> A lot of people want to
save the planet, but even more,
want to save something else.
>> It's cheaper.
>> The price is cheaper.
>> Without any help
from the government,
biodiesel production
would not be competitive.
So government offers a
tax break for biodiesel.
The effect is that it's sold at
gas stations up to 15% cheaper
than ordinary diesel.
>> Biodiesel has become such a
hot topic in Germany that even
their pop culture heroes
are biodiesel friendly.
[MUSIC - DIE FANTASCHISEN VIER,
" SMUDO IN CONCERT"]
(SINGING) I want to stand up.
Yes, I'm gonna stand up.
>> My artist name is Smudo.
It's also a nickname.
My real name is Michael Schmidt.
Smudo is one of Germany's
most-popular rap stars.
Over here, the guy's
bigger than Hasselhoff.
>> It's really easy to say
why biodiesel is better fuel
for the environment
because it's biodegradable.
It has less additives.
It has less emissions
than usual diesel.
And on top of that, it's cool.
With fuel, you can
just go, and just
grow it in your own garden, take
it, and put it in a race car.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[LAUGHS]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[SNIFFING]
>> Sweden has set a national
mandate that it will be
petroleum free by 2020.
That is something
the people of Sweden
decided they wanted to do.
And the government followed.
>> The government
has, for many years,
really been promoting
renewable energy.
>> We just decided to take away
all taxes on renewable fuels.
>> So that means that the price
of these fuel is attractive
to the customers.
>> The prime minister, he
announced that Sweden was
to become a green people's home.
>> I sat with the director of
combustion research at Volvo
Powertrain in
Gothenburg, Sweden.
And he got out his charts.
And he started showing me,
this is our plan for 2010.
And this is our plan for 2020.
They have a very,
very long-term view.
And they're trying
to prepare themselves
for what's happening with
fuels out in the future.
They're very worried about
the shortage of petroleum,
and the fact that
fuel prices are
going to go up dramatically.
And they want to be prepared.
>> We have a long history,
more than 10 years, in Sweden,
with ethanol and the biofuel.
All together, we have sold
roughly 21,000 units in Sweden.
A very important part in
this is also the government
and the Swedish states.
>> If you believe in the
environmental development,
you know that companies that
are environmentally sound,
they will make big money
in the coming years.
>> At the moment, we have
700 taxis here in Stockholm.
Before the end of 2010, at
minimum, 80% of those cars
should be what we
call green cars.
>> Frederick, what makes
you want to do green taxes?
>> Well, the answer
is very simple.
I have three.
Children.
>> My trip overseas was cut
short when I received some bad
news from back home.
You could say it was like
another death in my family.
>> Packing more than
140 mile-an-hour winds,
Katrina ripped through
the Gulf Coast.
>> I called my family.
And they said, we're
walking out of the house
and we don't know
if we'll be back.
And then the lines went dead.
9 million gallons
of toxic oil spread
into the bayous, and the rivers,
and the swamps, all of it
crude oil, all of it
from the oil industry.
None of it was
reported by the media.
That's a spill as big
as the Exxon Valdez.
>> Now here's the tragedy.
They never paid that bill.
They've never acknowledged
their responsibility,
nor has any state official
ever mentioned it.
Nor has the federal
delegation ever mentioned it.
>> The petrochemical industry
is King in Louisiana.
And it can do no wrong.
And they've convinced all of
government that the Louisiana
government simply cannot exist
without the petrochemical
industry.
>> And so we're now in the
position of asking the American
taxpayer to restore
coastal Louisiana,
while the wealthiest
corporations in the world,
they're getting off scot free.
They're not paying a dime.
The fact that Katrina
was intolerable
was largely oil-industry made.
>> We know the Gulf of
Mexico has gotten much warmer
in the last 50 years.
And when you have warmer water,
you get more-intense storms.
>> Hurricane Katrina, when
it was passing Florida,
was a stage-one
category hurricane.
And when it hit the
abnormally-warm oceans
of the Gulf of Mexico, it
turned into a stage 5 hurricane.
>> As the Earth heats up,
more water evaporates.
And the atmosphere
becomes moister.
And this moisture in the
atmosphere fuels hurricanes.
And so hurricanes are
expected to get more intense
with global warming.
>> Of all the states
in the United States,
Louisiana stands to lose the
most from global warming.
It's like we're right in
the middle of the target.
The causes of global warming
are the human use of energy.
80% of that energy comes from
carbon-dioxide-producing fuels,
oil, and coal, and natural gas.
It's the hot car effect.
The glass, like these
gases, lets sunlight in.
But it won't let the
radiant heat back out.
And so it gets warmer.
If we burn all the coal, and
all the oil and gasoline,
and everything we possibly can,
the ultimate sea level rise
could be about 20, 21 feet.
And 21 feet is just beyond
what anybody can imagine.
10 feet is beyond what
anybody can imagine.
>> The problems are as
serious as a heart attack.
This is not a problem
that's 200 years away.
This is a problem that's
now, that the children that
are coming into the world
now are going to face
a radically different climate.
In the next president's
administration,
this firm limit on
CO2 emissions has
to be in place that
systematically reduces carbon.
That's what the
American people want.
economy requires.
That's what the
climate requires.
And that's what our
national security requires.
[MUSIC - MOBY, "WHY DOES MY
HEART FEEL SO BAD"]
>> I joined a relief mission to
bring supplies to New Orleans.
We left in a
biodiesel-powered boat,
carrying food,
water, and medicine.
I had a lot of time to
think on that crossing.
(SINGING) Why does my heart--
I really wanted to give up--
(SINGING) --feel so bad
What is the point?
What's the point of
doing all this work
to promote clean energy,
to promote a sustainable
planet, if we're going
to destroy everything?
(SINGING) Why does
my heart feel so bad?
When we came back to Louisiana
after the hurricanes had
passed, people would
just stop in the street,
and they would
just hug each other
just because they were alive.
I mean, I saw Shell
workers helping
people who lived in
the nearby communities.
I saw poor people pulling
rich people out of the rubble.
It was such a
humanizing experience.
It doesn't matter
who you work for.
It doesn't matter what
you've done up to this point.
It is going to take everyone.
It is going to take
every corporate entity.
every government power
to create the world
that we're going
to have to create to survive.
And that was a
personal shift for me.
I stopped fighting
from anger and I
started looking for partners.
>> I know that change occurs not
just from some big monumental
thing, but from an individual
saying, you know what?
I'm going to make a change.
>> People feel that
they're not important.
They've been made
to feel that they
don't count when
in fact, they're
the only thing that counts.
The genius of America is
not in big corporate power.
It's not in big government.
It's in people who understand
this notion of the common good.
>> You did it.
You drove around the country
in your biodiesel van.
And you made a difference
in so many people's lives.
And then you made a
difference in my life.
And then I've turned
so many people on.
And it's the power
of the individual
to affect their
perimeter of friends.
And then each of those people
have a perimeter of friends.
And that's the way this
whole revolution takes place.
[MUSIC - WILLIE NELSON, "ON THE
ROAD AGAIN"]
>> Jonathan Richman
told me about biodiesel.
And then I got this book.
And he gave me this book.
And I read the book
about five times.
>> I have a brand new Mercedes
that I just bought three
or four months ago.
It's never had any kind of
fuel in it except biodiesel.
>> Willie was so
excited about biodiesel,
he told his friend
Carl about it.
Carl owns Carl's Corner, the
mother of all Texas truck
stops.
Now he sells a special
blend BioWillie.
Carl even built a stage so
Willie could come and spread
the biodiesel message.
>> You're doing a great thing.
(SINGING) We're the
best of friends,
insisting that the world
keep turning our way.
And our way is on
the road again.
>> And who's starting
to hear that message?
The people who use diesel
the most, the truckers.
>> Actually, this is the
first time I've been here.
I came down because
I listen to XM Radio.
I listened a lot to Bill Mack.
>> I first heard about
biodiesel about four years ago.
Willie Nelson was on my
radio show by telephone.
And he said, I'm
using this stuff.
I said, it works?
He said, it works great.
I've got it in my buses.
And the truckers heard this.
And it started to roll.
>> Well, its' getting
better fuel mileage.
The truck is running better.
It's cleaner for
the environment.
I don't smoke anymore.
Well, the truck don't smoke.
>> Just call me Elmer.
Everybody else does.
>> What do you think about the
US's dependence on foreign oil?
>> It's a shame.
It's flat-ass shame.
You can censor that
if you want to.
>> And eventually, when we have
the supply to meet the demand,
be cheaper.
And we will not
be having to lean
on some country over the
water to give us our fuel.
>> We don't have to rely upon
congressmen, and senators,
or presidents, or whoever it
is that want to get us involved
with foreign oil.
>> 99.9% of the things that
you touch in everyday life,
was one way or another,
shipped to you by truck.
Everything you're wearing right
now, at one time or another
was on a truck.
>> So how does all
your stuff get to you?
The shoes on your
feet, the shirt
on your back, the chair
you're sitting in right now,
ever think about it?
Check it out.
A lot of your stuff actually
starts out overseas.
Your stuff gets
loaded onto a boat
powered by a diesel engine.
The boat brings it
across the ocean.
Your stuff gets
unloaded at a port,
and put on to a train
powered by a diesel engine.
The train brings your stuff to
a distribution center, where
your stuff gets unloaded onto
a truck powered by a-- you
got it, it-- diesel engine.
Diesel engines do more
than just transport things.
They move earth.
They run power plants.
They build buildings.
The diesel engine is by far the
dominant engine of the world.
And every one of them can
run on biodiesel, today,
without any modifications.
I headed back to California
to buy a new diesel car.
[MUSIC - SHERYL CROW, "SOAK UP
THE SUN"]
Buying a diesel car is
actually quite easy.
>> I just went on to Craigslist.
>> I found my car on eBay.
>> Type in the
key word "diesel,"
and you get hundreds of results.
>> I found it in a car magazine.
>> I chose a used VW Golf
from a local car dealer.
>> This is my first
tour of biodiesel.
And I am grateful to Mr. Tickell
for introducing me to this.
And so there it goes.
(SINGING) I'm gonna
soak up the sun.
I'm gonna tell
everyone to lighten up.
>> People are
interested in this.
This is my personal
bio-bling fleet.
How do we get the
fuel to more people?
How do we make it
more accessible?
A 1984 Lincoln Continental
Bill Blass edition.
So I co-founded the
LA Biodiesel Co-op.
It's a mobile filling station.
My 1996 monster truck.
It is a Chevy Tahoe
that came factory
equipped with a diesel engine.
And it runs 100% biodiesel.
This, over here,
is my gas guzzler.
The Toyota Prius
is the only vehicle
that I own that
runs on gasoline.
That, then, was a
catalyst for getting it
into actual
bricks-and-mortar stations.
And we managed to get it
into a couple stations
here in Los Angeles, which
is where I fill up now,
as do hundreds of other people
who are driving on biodiesel.
>> Manufacture-wise,
it is a diesel car.
And I didn't do
anything special to it.
It was ready to go, right
off the assembly line,
to run off biodiesel.
>> Some of the sources of
information out there make you
think that there's these
complicated conversions that
have to happen.
And I realized that
no, you just go
find a good-quality
diesel engine
and burn this alternative fuel.
>> The car runs identical.
There's no difference in the
way the Volkswagen handles
for power.
>> It's like walking
past a restaurant.
>> It smells food like
rather than not food like.
>> What does this
one smell like?
>> It smells, actually, good.
>> That one.
>> That one smells worse?
>> Yeah.
>> OK, that's biodiesel
because I can tell,
because it smells
like vegetable oil.
>> We got calls from parents
and teachers about the smell
of diesel that they noticed when
they went on field trips with
their kids.
So we took monitoring
equipment inside school buses,
and found that the levels
were about four times higher
inside the bus compared
to outside the bus.
>> Our school buses
are diesel powered.
Petroleum diesel exhaust
is a toxic carcinogen.
We know that diesel
exhaust is linked
to cancer, premature death, and
health problems like asthma.
Since we can do
something about this,
it is unimaginable to
me that we wouldn't.
>> You know, when you're behind
a school bus, you're just--
>> Taking it in, taking it in.
>> Well, you're putting your
shirt over your-- and our kids
are inside those buses.
And it's so easy.
All these buses can be
changed over to biodiesel.
>> I discovered one city
that's not gambling with
our kids' health.
>> Las Vegas, with the Clark
County School District,
has over 1,500 buses that have
been operating on biodiesel
for almost seven years.
They are the largest bus fleet
in the world on biodiesel.
>> What do you think if parents
knew that putting your kids
on a school bus that doesn't
have biodiesel is like putting
them in the school bus
full of cigarette smoke?
>> I think parents
don't actually know
what's in the fuel.
>> I can tell you that use of
biodiesel fuel in those school
buses is going to
protect those children.
>> We have to care
about our kids now,
this different generation
of kids that we have now.
We got to show them.
We've got to set the
tone for them so they'll
be able to do the same thing.
>> We ought to be demanding that
the school boards throughout
this country insist that their
fleets use that fuel because it
works.
[MUSIC - JOHN MELLENCAMP, "PINK
HOUSES"]
(SINGING) Ain't that
America for you and me.
Ain't' that America
somethin' to see, baby.
Ain't that America
Home of the Free.
Yeah, little pink
house for you and me.
Oh, we build them,
baby, for you and me.
>> Biodiesel was
finally catching on.
>> One of our motivations for
using biodiesel-- as you see,
this is a recycling center--
we wanted to be sustainable.
I thought it was a non
sequitur to send trucks
through the streets of Berkeley
with the word "ecology" written
on them, and used petrodiesel.
>> This is truly a
groundbreaking event,
to have the Navy
embrace biodiesel.
>> The Navy was using biodiesel.
McDonald's was using biodiesel.
FedEx was using biodiesel.
UPS was using biodiesel.
Disney World was
using biodiesel.
>> It's really, really cool.
>> It was a feeling like,
wow, the good guys can win.
You know?
We're going to succeed.
And then overnight, the
whole thing changed.
"Science Magazine"
published two articles
about the potential
dangers of biofuels.
Instantaneously, 600 newspapers
had these articles front page--
biofuels are causing
deforestation,
global warming,
biofuels are a crime against
humanity, biofuels starve kids.
Most of the gas stations
in Germany closed.
Carl's Corner got crushed.
And even my
neighborhood gas station
closed its biodiesel pump.
Was my entire life's
purpose, everything
that I had worked so hard
for, hurting the environment?
I worked for 10
years doing nothing
but promoting biodiesel.
And now my work is a
crime against humanity.
10 years of helping people,
seeing an industry get built,
gone overnight.
I mean, were biofuels
worse than oil?
[MUSIC - FREEWORM,
"VEGETATION = FUEL"]
>> The vegetation
gives you fuel.
>> Some people think that
biofuels really suck.
Biofuels worse than gasoline?
Do they really know
how bad gasoline is?
When we go to the gas
station to buy gasoline,
we actually only pay half of
the true cost of the gasoline.
That's because the other half
is given to the oil companies,
by our government, in the
form of hidden subsidies.
But we pay for those
too, with our taxes.
Maybe that's why
the US doesn't have
any money for things like a
national health care plan.
(SINGING) Vegetation
equals fuel.
The whole process
of making gasoline
is incredibly inefficient.
For every one unit
of energy that I
put into making gasoline,
I only get about 80% out.
It actually takes more energy
to make a gallon of gasoline
than a gallon of
gasoline contains.
So what about biofuels?
The two most-common
biofuels today
are ethanol, made from corn,
and biodiesel from soybeans.
Ethanol is used for
gasoline engines.
And biodiesel is
for diesel engines.
>> Our first-generation
biofuel was based on logic.
These are agricultural
products that we can subsidize.
You can make corn-based ethanol.
And there's a big
lobby behind it.
And similarly, soy.
You can make a good
biodiesel from soy.
And there's a big
lobby behind it.
>> Most of the ethanol in
the US is made from corn.
And corn is grown in huge,
monocrop fields of tens
or even hundreds of
thousands of acres.
To grow that corn takes
a tremendous amount
of fertilizers and
pesticides, which all
come from, you guessed it, oil.
And when you factor in the
phosphates, the nitrates,
the fertilizers, the chemicals,
the fuel used for the trucks,
and the fuel used
for the tractor,
it takes as much energy to
make a gallon of ethanol
as a gallon of ethanol contains.
So ethanol is arguably
energy neutral.
It's a little better than
gasoline, but not when
you consider the pollution.
>> Since the 1980s,
in the Gulf of Mexico,
there has developed a dead zone.
And that dead zone is
resulting from nitrogen
flowing down the river from
all of our corn production.
This year, scientists
are estimating
it will be the largest ever,
about 8,500 square miles.
That's the size
of Massachusetts.
>> Ethanol from corn was grown
by large corporations that
often control the
inputs for the crop.
And they control the sale
of the finished product.
Because our agricultural
corporations
are subsidized to
such a large degree,
they're actually
able to grow food
at lower than
world-market prices.
What this means is, we
overproduce food in the US
by about 30%.
That 30% extra
food actually gets
dumped onto the world
market at prices
lower than their farmers
can grow the same food.
So what happens in this system
is farmers in other countries
stop farming.
They give up and quit.
And they become
locked into a cycle
of dependence on cheap
food from the US,
which relies on cheap oil.
Now let's assume that
our oil price doubles.
In the US, that may mean that
corn, or a box of corn flakes,
goes up by 25%.
But in countries overseas,
that means that people starve.
>> 75% of the increase in
the price of food has been
because of increases
in the price of oil.
Transportation prices,
packaging prices,
everything's gone up
because they're all
dependent on energy and oil.
>> So then there's biodiesel
made from soybeans.
For every one unit
of fossil energy
that's put into the
biodiesel process,
you actually get three units
out in biodiesel energy.
So biodiesel, arguably,
is energy positive.
Soybeans have a lot of
the same problems as corn.
They're grown in
huge, monocrop farms,
using a tremendous amount
of petroleum, fertilizers,
pesticides, and other inputs.
And in some parts of the
world, to grow those soybeans,
some governments are
allowing something
unacceptable to happen.
>> The last few years, you've
seen an expansion of soy
production in
places like Brazil.
And it's led to deforestation.
And there's something
wrong with the way
our current economic system
values tropical rainforest when
it's worth more to
cut down the forest
than it is to have a standing
forest that's providing us
with carbon sequestration,
drinking water, biodiversity,
medicinal plants, and habitat
for millions of species.
>> I've suggested that we ban
the export of biofuels from any
country that doesn't meet
reforestation targets.
>> What about making
biofuels sustainably?
I mean, after all,
those engines are
going to need some
other kind of fuel.
>> Big, heavy, earth-moving
equipment are really not going
to be electric powered.
They need too much power.
So the diesel engine, we
believe, is here to stay.
And biodiesel is a
perfect solution.
As far as the
sustainability of biodiesel,
we're just in round one here.
We don't need to use virgin
oils from food crops.
This year, we'll run 15
different feedstocks.
We could produce biodiesel with
waste, waste fats, waste fish
oil.
We're also developing
virgin oils out of crops
like pennycress or camelina
that are weeds, essentially.
They grow very cheaply
in sub-optimal soils.
>> This is a very proud city.
And it used to be a
significant manufacturing hub.
And over time, one after
another, these companies
have either shut their doors
or they've moved overseas.
>> If you think about Erie,
there's been so much innovation
here, whether it's the
locomotive business
or the appliance business.
So there is a history
here of innovation.
And you just got to pull it out.
>> My vision is that Hero
Bx leads the second American
Revolution.
Hero Bx has really been bigger
than just the employment.
And we have generated
great employment here.
>> The issue is that you need a
triple bottom line because you
need the ecology considered.
The second thing is, you
have to have the heart in it.
That's what allows
people to do their best.
They're a critical
component to any success
that we're able to attain.
That's what the difference is.
>> We are clearly the biggest
biodiesel producer in America
and North America.
We're 10% up the
technology curve.
We know we need a
generation-2 feedstock.
But we know there's a
generation 3 out there.
And our goal is to be on
the leading edge of that.
We're a fuel-technology company.
But we do tend to be focused
on biodiesel because that
is such a terrific solution
to what's out there.
Biodiesel also is
going to evolve,
and is evolving into a
terrific aviation fuel.
>> Richard Branson, he owns
an airline, a record company,
he even owns a spaceship.
But what he wants more than
anything is a sustainable fuel.
>> I was very pleased today
to be making a commitment
to invest 100% of all future
proceeds into tackling global
warming, for an estimated value
of $3 billion over the next 10
years.
[APPLAUSE]
>> I've always believed that one
person can make a difference.
And when that one person
is a bazillionaire,
he can make a really
big difference.
>> In biofuels, there
will be bad biofuels,
which may eat into
the food supply.
And there will be good
biofuels that will not
eat into the food supply.
And I think what the
environmental organizations
have to be very careful of is
not to bracket all biofuels are
bad for you.
It just doesn't make sense.
>> Thank you.
>> Today's Virgin Atlantic
flight is a major milestone
in the development
of cleaner fuels.
We wanted to prove
that a plane could
fly at 30,000 feet on biofuel.
That has happened.
And we believe that we can
now start developing biofuel
for the future that hopefully,
the whole of Virgin Atlantic
can use, and other airlines too.
What we have to aim for is a
technological breakthrough.
And that technological
breakthrough, hopefully,
will enable us to drive our
cars, our lorries, our buses,
our planes, on clean
fuels which are not
damaging the environment,
on fuels that are not
eating into the food supply.
That is the utopia
we must strive for.
>> Did that technological
breakthrough already happen?
Remember this guy,
the peanut farmer?
The day President Carter
installed solar panels
on the White House, he announced
a new research program.
>> But if we use our
technological imagination,
if we can work together to
harness the light of the sun,
the power of the wind, and the
strength of rushing streams,
then we will succeed.
>> The Carter administration
established a Solar Energy
Research Institute.
Part of the research
was looking for a way
to convert the energy of the
sun into a renewable fuel
source that could be grown on
land not suitable for farming,
something that could be
irrigated with wastewater,
and would produce
exponentially huge yields,
something that could pull carbon
dioxide out of the atmosphere.
Working laboratories
across the country,
they found what they
were looking for.
>> One real sleeper
that's very interesting,
that may have a
lot of potential,
is algae-based biodiesel.
>> Our Virgin green energy team
of people are trying their best
to see if they can invest in and
develop an algae-based aviation
fuel.
>> Algae.
And I'll show you.
You want to see it?
Here.
This could be it.
This could be the stuff
that saves society.
>> Carter's Aquatic Species
Program determined that
in a space of less than
15% of the Sonoran Desert,
America can grow enough
fuel for the whole country.
The total cost of the 20-year
program was $25 million.
According to the Congressional
Research Service,
the cost of the Iraq war
is $300 million a day.
>> It's entirely possible that
your next car could run off
of biodiesel produced
by microalgae.
Algae are the original
oil producers on Earth.
And so this oil is very
similar to the oil that comes
straight out of the ground.
>> Algae can double its
cell mass every few hours.
It goes from one cell, to two
cells, to four cells, to eight.
It grows so quickly that
we can go from the cells
on this plate, to a flask,
to a large-scale industrial
fermenter of hundreds
of thousands of liters,
in a span of days.
We take a 150-million
year process,
which is what it takes to make
oil that we use in our cars
right now.
And we condense
it to three days.
And we end up with
oil that when burned,
doesn't add additional carbon
dioxide into the atmosphere.
You can make all of the things
from a regular barrel of oil
from this oil.
You can make household-cleaning
supplies, diesel fuel,
industrial chemicals,
plastics, jet fuel.
>> Can I taste it?
>> Sure.
Wow.
Tastes like peanut oil.
[MUSIC - FREEWORM,
"VEGETATION = FUEL"]
>> We actually developed this
solar diesel so that it would
run in pre-existing
infrastructure.
And that means from refinery,
to pipeline, to gas station,
to car.
(SINGING) Vegetation = fuel.
Vegetation, vegetation,
vegetation, vegetation,
vegetation, vegetation.
>> The new generation of
biofuels has to be made from
our waste streams.
>> Power plants produce between
30% to 40% of the CO2 footprint
of this country.
It's a total shift in how
you look at power plants.
Power plants are sources of
algae food, which is CO2.
>> This offered an alternative
to carbon management.
Capturing CO2 from our
existing operations,
we can feed the existing
emissions into these farms.
>> We ask ourselves, how many
power plants, in this country,
how many of them could
support the technology?
The answer is, more than 1,700
could support algae farms.
>> We don't have
to change anything.
We don't have to
modify the plant.
We just add the farm
adjacent to the plant.
>> In a sustainable world,
waste has to equal fuel.
We always make waste.
We're good at it.
>> Do you know how much money
cities spend trying to get rid
of that?
To get rid of it, you
know, like, ooh, it's poo.
It's poo.
Ooh.
Power to the poopers.
That's what I say.
In fact, I say power
from the poopers.
>> Every community that has
a wastewater-treatment plant
could actually be growing algae.
I'm third generation
oil and gas.
And my grandfather
and his seven brothers
got into the industry
about 1910, in Louisiana.
This is a 6 1/4 drill
bit that we use.
I think it went
about 4,600 feet.
From our oil-field
experience, we've
developed a system
to harvest and then
extract the algal
oil Smell it there.
It's like a vegetable oil.
>> That's algal oil.
>> Yeah.
Smells good.
Smells like money, right?
>> Smells like money.
[LAUGHS]
>> Our program is to
take the wastewater,
discharge it into our ponds,
grow the algae, Which?
Will extract the oil from
it to produce a biofuel.
Presently, we've built
an infrastructure
that we could produce 300 to
600 million gallons of fuel
a year from.
I got a phone call
from a journalist.
And his question was,
why in the world would
an oil and gas company
want to compete with itself
with alternative fuels?
Without hesitating,
my response was,
this is what I want
to leave as a legacy
to my children
and grandchildren.
>> Biofuels are a critical
part of the solution.
The problem, maybe, is
thinking about biofuels
as the entire solution.
America is addicted to oil.
The president told us so.
Where are we going to
get a barrel of oil?
>> The new sustainable barrel,
here's how we might fill it.
Sustainable biofuels
like algae are great.
Another part of the barrel
could come from biomass.
Biomass as any organic material,
trees, garbage, yard clippings,
agricultural and industrial
waste, wood chips, sawdust,
paper products, lumber--
my personal favorite,
used cooking oil.
>> This is a start of a forest.
It is also the start of
recovery from the dependency
on foreign oil.
>> Another form of biomass
are energy crops like wood.
Since the most-dense form
of biomass comes from wood,
what if there was a
faster way to grow trees?
>> A typical tree is going to
grow to maturity in 10 to 15,
20, even 30 years.
The megaflora tree
that we're planting
will grow to full maturity
within three years.
And when you cut it
down, it'll regrow
from its own stump to another
full-sized tree in three years
again.
We're growing a tree
that captures carbon.
We're growing a tree that
can be used for biomass.
And we can use that
biomass to create biofuels.
>> Well the concept is to plant
trees in a plantation like
we're seeing here, but
then to also intercrop,
meaning to plant an oilseed crop
in between the rows of trees.
And by doing that,
we'll have the trees
to harvest as biomass, and
use to produce bioalcohols.
We'll also have the
oilseed that we can
harvest to produce biodiesel.
The trees were initially
developed to remediate soils,
meaning to take contaminants
out of the soils.
There's a lot of land that
can't be planted right now,
across the country,
that is contaminated
with selenium, boron,
various different kinds
of heavy metals.
And a lot of that's considered
what we'd call marginal land.
The trees and the
oilseed crop we're
dealing with clean that
soil up and allow it to be
used for food crops again.
There are many,
many tracts of land
in California, as well
as across the country
and in other countries, where
we can use the megalflora tree,
and produce significant volumes
of biofuels to help our future.
>> According to the
Department of Energy,
America could get 20% of its
electricity from wind power.
>> We now see a number of
European countries that have
literally replaced coal, and
are thinking about replacing
nuclear, with wind power.
>> To have wind power provide
100% of America's electricity,
it would take several
thousand turbines.
Now if you were to
take all those towers,
and hypothetically put them
all together into one space,
that would be less than
one single large coal strip
mine in Wyoming.
>> We have enough harnessable
wind energy in North Dakota,
Montana, and Texas alone to
power all the energy needs
of our country.
>> I did a calculation a few
years ago that if we had built
wind turbines with the amount of
money that we put into fighting
the Iraqi war, that we would be
getting more energy from wind
power today than we ever
got in oil from Iraq.
>> If you get 20% of our
electric energy from wind,
and it's going to create
over 500,000 high-paying jobs
for the economy, including
many rural areas.
>> There are 80,000 parts
in every wind turbine.
This is big engineering.
You can imagine like Boeing.
Those are the jobs
of the future.
You can put Detroit
back to work.
Tell them, stop making SUVs.
Start making wind turbines.
You can save the world and
put your city back to work.
>> Enough solar energy falls
on the surface of the planet
in less than an hour to meet
humankind's entire energy needs
for a full year.
>> With only 7% of our existing
urban area that's already
developed, we can install solar
photovoltaics to provide 100%
of America's electricity
requirements.
>> Having solar hasn't
changed my life.
I use the same amount
of electricity.
It makes me feel good.
That's all.
I feel good having solar power.
It just sits there and
makes electricity for me.
And I can use as much as I want.
And the stuff I don't
use goes to other people.
>> So if you put a solar panel
on the roof of your home,
you ought to be able to sell
that access back to the grid
and get market rates.
And if you did that,
all of a sudden,
every American would be
an energy entrepreneur.
And every household would
become a power plant.
And think of what that
does to our country.
It makes every American richer.
>> The next part of the barrel
should come from rethinking
our vehicles.
>> The question to ask is, of
the next billion cars we ship
in the next 15 years
on this planet,
what technology can get into 500
million to 800 million of those
cars to really
make a difference?
>> Plug-in hybrid is a normal
Prius that has an added battery
pack and a plug.
It can drive on
electricity instead of gas.
The sun can beat
down on solar panels.
And the solar panels can
be connected to the grid.
And the grid can charge the car.
>> With a plug-in hybrid, you
could reduce our petroleum use
by 80%.
And that's even if
the plugin hybrids
ran on conventional fuel.
And of course, if you run
it on biodiesel or ethanol,
then you essentially
knock out petroleum.
>> Israel's going to be off of
gasoline within three years.
You get 120 miles on a charge.
They're very fast cars.
If you're going to go
more than 120 miles,
you can pull into
any gas station.
They'll slide out the
exhausted battery and slide
in a fresh one.
There's 30 other nations
that are now lined up
to install these systems.
This is going to happen
faster than anybody imagined.
>> What's better for the
environment than a green car?
No car.
>> My vote would be a
radically-different public
transportation system in
every major city in America.
>> There's no reason,
over the next 20 years,
that we couldn't revitalize our
urban environments to make them
bicycle, pedestrian,
and transit friendly.
>> Our air would
become more breathable.
We'd have lower
level of toxicity.
So you'd have a much
more effective city.
Whenever we put in a
rail line, overnight,
the rail line ridership
increased by 60,000 in one day.
And that gives people choices.
[MUSIC - SHERYL CROW,
"GASOLINE"]
>> But even with
all these things,
maybe the answer is to find a
way to just need less energy.
>> Something like 20% or
30% of our energy use goes
into the residential sector.
And that's just
extraordinarily wasteful.
>> It doesn't matter whether
you're an individual lives
in a big home or an individual
lives in an apartment
or a condo.
There are lots of things you
can do to take that first step.
And I promise when you
make that first step,
you take another step.
And you start off walking.
But almost everybody
starts running in the end
because it's contagious.
And you realize that you're
doing great for the economy,
great for yourself,
your own pocketbook.
But you're doing great
for the Earth's resources
and for the future generations
that have to use them.
>> Conservation and efficiency
is the cleanest, quickest,
and cheapest way to ease
our addiction to oil.
(SINGING) Gasoline will be free,
will be free, yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> The question I get asked
all the time, is it too late?
What can I do?
It's not solely about biodiesel.
It's not solely all
about the answers.
It's about each person
having a consciousness,
that the way we live
affects the next person,
and it affects our community,
it affects our country,
and ultimately
affects the planet.
>> We can live a better life,
and not a more expensive life,
if all we do is care.
>> The message is
about compassion.
It doesn't matter
if you're talking
about being
compassionate to a person
or being compassionate
to the planet.
>> I think what's stopping a lot
of people, or companies, also,
from doing this, as
well as governments,
is they're waiting for
the masses to do it
and they'll join in.
But what they forget
about is the masses
is made up of individuals.
And until the individuals
make the change,
you don't have the masses.
>> The future for the country
is a new alliance where you have
the best of business
and the real,
new entrepreneurs or
the new technologies,
the best of labor that wants
to be a part of rebuilding
the economy, all standing
together saying, listen,
we are tired of the military
petroleum complex running
the country into the ground.
We want a green future
for this country.
We want to create a green
wave that can lift all boats.
That's the future.
>> I was walking with my
daughter on the beach.
We happened to see plastics
all over the place.
And my daughter says, Dad,
they're teaching me in school
that plastics are
destroying our planet.
She goes, why don't you
to do something about it?
And I said, you know what?
Why not.
2 and 1/2 years later,
we developed an additive,
breaks down plastics
to CO2, H2O,
biomass, that will be
eaten by microorganisms.
Do you realize there's
actually 46,000 pieces
of plastic floating in every
square mile on the ocean?
We are using 2 million
bags per minute.
Only 1% of that
is ever recycled.
The rest is floating
around somewhere.
It's in the landfills.
And it doesn't break down.
It just lasts, and
lasts, and lasts.
Guys, how are you doing today?
Isn't it sad that these plastic
bags, they never break down?
Wouldn't it make sense
to use a plastic bag that
will biodegrade?
>> My new bags are 52 by 64.
>> We can make
any size you want.
>> And you can imagine how much
petroleum base is in there.
>> This is the future.
>> Give me your card.
I'm the beach supervisor.
So I'll give you a call.
>> Hey, it's a pleasure
talking to you.
And I got a little
dirty hands but--
>> That's all right.
>> We don't mind.
We're both in the garbage
business right, brother?
>> That's right.
>> A green-collar job is
basically a blue-collar job
that's been upgraded to better
respect the environment.
All of the jobs that actually
improve environmental health
and pay well, those
are green-collar jobs.
>> Filling the new sustainable
barrel will be a challenge.
So who's going to lead the way?
[MUSIC - SNOW PATROL, "YOU'RE
ALL I HAVE"]
>> New York City puts up about
1% of the global warming gases
in the country.
And we've got to bring
that number down.
And if we do that,
we can actually
have a practical impact.
And what I'm doing
with my bill would
be to mandate that all fuel
oil in New York City, all fuel
oil-- and we have
over a million homes
using fuel oil in
New York City, not
to mention the commercial
uses, government uses.
But all uses of fuel
oil in New York City
will contain 20% bio by 2013.
(SINGING) It's so clear now
that you are all that I have.
>> We go around the city.
And we collect the
used cooking oil,
and turn it into clean-burning,
renewable biodiesel fuel.
>> If you can make a
community a better place,
and you start with one
place, it multiplies.
>> I just feel like a
biodiesel man, you know?
I'm just-- I need
my cape, you know?
And I can just fly around
with the message on my back,
and just tell everyone, come
on, let's save this Earth.
You know, let's get
with this program.
>> Our cities
behaving ecologically?
The answer is no.
Could they behave ecologically?
Of course.
It requires a desire to do
so, and an economic incentive,
because the political
will is one thing.
Social will is another thing.
But the economics really
drives the system, doesn't it?
OK.
So is it economic to do this?
And the answer is,
are you kidding?
Compared to what we have now?
Anything we can do to
change this way of behaving
is economic.
New York City has
lots of tidal power.
They have the East
River, for instance.
We're experimenting now
with turbines, situated
at the bottom of the
East River, which
will capture the
electricity generated
by the turbines turning
in both directions.
That's how we
should be behaving.
Are we gifted with
sunlight in New York City?
Well, we have about 250
sunlight days a year.
So we could use solar panels
as a way of doing this.
We could situate them in places
like Floyd Bennett Air Force
base.
This is an unused
property in Brooklyn.
It's inside the city limits.
It's hundreds of acres.
And every city has
these characteristics,
every one of them.
I would like to see New York
City, and Chicago, and San
Francisco, and Los Angeles,
and New Orleans, and Phoenix,
and all those other great
cities behave ecologically.
>> Here in the city, you could
imagine what this would be like
if every single rooftop
had trees and grass on it.
The city would be cooler.
The air quality would be better.
We could grow our own food.
>> What if we could grow that
food locally, within the city,
and at the same time, sequester
some of those emissions
and the CO2 that's being
generated by that concentrated
population?
What if we could do that in a
way that was cost effective,
provided jobs for local people?
Well, that's pretty attractive.
>> Welcome to the third
agricultural revolution.
The vertical farm
will make food.
It will make water.
And it will make energy.
If we were to construct
a 30-story vertical farm,
one square New York City
block and footprint,
to grow enough food to
feed 50,000 people--
>> Not only that, I get some
of my biodiesel from the algae
that we grow in that controlled
environmental future farm.
>> And now, suddenly we have
the potential for having
a sustainable world, the kind of
world that has a future again.
[MUSIC - ELIZA GILKYSON,
"REQUIEM"]
(SINGING) Mother Mary,
full of grace, awaken.
>> Well, 9/11, I
felt that impact.
And if we don't be prepared now,
we might just come right back
around to it, you know?
And this is why we're here.
We're here to prevent that
situation from happening.
(SINGING) Mary, fill the
glass to overflowing.
Illuminate the path
where we are going.
>> And after 9/11, people really
got the sense that there is
a security component
to energy independence.
And that's something
that should happen.
And New Yorkers
being who they are,
they want to have
it happen here.
(SINGING) Our world
has been shaken.
We wander our
homelands forsaken.
In the dark night of the soul,
bring some comfort to us all.
Oh, mother Mary, come and
carry us in your embrace
that our sorrows may be faced.
Have mercy on us all, in funeral
fires burning, each flame,
to your mystery returning.
In the dark night of the
soul, your shattered dreamers,
make them whole.
Oh, mother Mary, find us where
we've fallen out of grace.
Lead us to a higher place.
>> When I think about
my daughter growing up
in the world, and I think
about, that's the world I'm hand
in my kid.
And do we want that to
be a world where we say,
OK, here's a gas mask and a
machine gun, have a nice life?
>> We're borrowing this
Earth from our children.
We have to consider what
we're leaving to our children.
(SINGING) Lead us
to a higher place.
>> President Kennedy, who went
before the Congress in 1961
and said, we're going to
put a man on the moon.
And when he did that, it was
a very bold thing to say.
I mean, our rockets were
blowing up on the launch pad.
We haven't even
invented Tang yet.
But Kennedy understood
the innate creative genius
of the American people.
And he understood
that when Americans
had a technological
vision, you can unleash
enormous creative energy.
>> We choose to go to
the moon in this decade,
and do the other things,
not because they are easy,
but because they are hard,
because that goal will serve
to organize and measure to the
best of our energy and skills,
because that challenge is one
that we're willing to accept,
one we are unwilling
to postpone,
and one we intend to win.
>> We can do things in this
country if we have presidential
leadership that has a
vision for this nation,
that is capable of
mobilizing the scientific,
and technological, and energy,
and entrepreneurial resources
of the United States of America.
>> We are behind our competitors
in fuel-efficient cars,
in solar-cell technology,
at least its implementation.
So we have some
catching up to do.
But we caught up and
we passed the Soviets.
We can do the same now
in the field of energy.
>> People all over the world
must make sure that they elect
people who top of
their priority is,
how do we address this problem?
>> Get involved in
the political process.
>> You'd be amazed how much
impact a politician feels just
by being bombarded.
Send postcards.
Send emails.
Make phone calls.
If we really are going to let
our government speak for us,
then our government
has to hear from us.
Oil is going to become
such a sacred commodity
that we don't even know, at
this point, what war looks like.
We're the ones that
run this government,
even though it looks like
special interests do.
We have to start showing up.
We have to vote for these
political candidates,
and hold them accountable to
what they're promising to do.
>> People can't rely on their
pocketbook to change society.
First you change
your light bulb.
Then you change the law.
You've got to be calling
your congressmen.
You've got to be
calling your legislator.
The mayor's got to
know who you are.
You've got to be talking to the
people who are making the laws.
>> And vote for a person
who will articulate and push
a vision of clean
energy for this country.
[PUMP RUNNING]
>> Going in right
now, as we speak.
It's the most patriotic
thing I've ever done.
>> We have the power
to make a difference.
Are we going to wait for the
oil companies to hand it to us?
Or are we going to wait for the
automakers to say here, now go?
Forget about it.
We, now, can make
a difference today.
>> We all breathe the same air.
If we have it in our
power to do something
to make that air
cleaner, don't you
think it's our fiduciary
responsibility to do so?
Families matter.
You have the ability
to do something
to protect that family.
And I believe you ought to do
that, without question, looking
at alternative fuels.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[VOCALIZING]
>> In my lifetime, I've been
able to see the blue planet
in a way that my grandparents
couldn't have imagined it.
I've seen a photograph
of it from thousands
of miles in space.
And it really is blue, isn't it?
And it's gorgeous.
>> We are an accumulation
of life forms.
What you look at, when
you see another person,
is the history of this world
from the beginning of life
to the present.
As soon as we learn
that lesson, and that we
sense our connectivity,
then you can't help but want
that connectivity to increase.
>> It's the most
important thing in life,
is for people to at
least have the choice.
That's freedom.
And I wanted to be able to
offer that to my children.
>> The Earth is not a thing.
It's not a rock.
It's a living being.
And we are part of that.
If we begin to learn to live
by the principles set forth
in nature, we have
infinite abundance
of energy, infinite
abundance of resources.
We can sustain every living
human being, as well as
the human beings that will come.
The choice is ours,
every single one of ours.
The rest of the
journey is up to you.
[MUSIC - REBECCA HARELL,
"DRIVE"]
(SINGING) Driving
through the city
and the smoke-stacked lives.
See the fires burning
so deep into the night.
Lost on the road.
Turn on the radio.
I passed the static
into empty space.
And I want to let go,
don't want to play.
Turn off the noise.
Turn off the radio.
You're driving in the right
direction and you're not alone.
You're driving in
the right direction,
and you're not alone when you
drive, when you drive alone.
And I'm realizing that I drove
so far looking for something
that was here all along.
Turn on my voice.
I'm on the radio.
I'm driving in the
right direction.
And I'm not alone.
You're driving in
the right direction.
And you're not alone.
When you drive,
when you drive, I'll
be the one lighting up the way.
Gonna rise above
to a brand-new day.
All there is to say,
there's another way.
I'll be the one
lighting up the way.
Gonna rise above
to a brand-new day.
All there is to say,
there's another way.
Driving in the right direction.
And you're not alone.
You're driving in
the right direction.
And you're not alone.
Wanna drive.
Wanna drive you home.
When you're drive, when
you're driving home.
[MUSIC - SHERYL CROW,
"GASOLINE"]
(SINGING) Way back
in the year of 2017,
the sun was growing
hotter and the oil
was way beyond its peak.
When crazy Hector Johnson
broke into the refinery,
and the black gold started
flowing just like Boston tea.
It was the summer of the riots.
And London suffered
sweltering heat.
And the gangs of Mini Coopers
took the battle to the streets.
But when the creed
was handed down
for no more trucks and no more
cars, they threw cans of petrol
through the windows
of Scotland Yard.
And they yelled,
gasoline will be free,
will be free, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Gasoline will be free, will
be free, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
When the Mounties stormed the
palace of the Saudi family,
they held them up for
ransom without disturbing
their high tea.
But their getaway was shaky.
They stalled in
the Riyadh streets
because you can't make it very
far when your tank is on empty.
But the final can of gasoline
was loaded on a truck,
and driven through the streets
of Agra to the palace aqueduct.
You see, all the
majesty of worship
that once adorned this
fatal halls was just
a target for the angry as
they blew up the Taj Mahal.
And they yelled,
gasoline we'll be free,
will be free, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Gasoline will be free, will
be free, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Gasoline, it will be free, it
will be free, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah yeah.